AI #1803: Contract Commitment dataset extension (#1924)
FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec: specification/datasets/contract_commitment/columns/contractcommitmentfulfillmentinterval.md

# Contract Commitment Fulfillment Interval

Contract Commitment Fulfillment Interval represents the specific [*period*](#glossary:period) used to measure and reset the fulfillment of a [*contract commitment*](#glossary:contract-commitment). It establishes the window during which usage is aggregated to determine if commitment obligations have been met. At the end of each fulfillment interval, the [contract commitment model](#datasets.contractcommitment.contractcommitmentmodel) logic is applied, either resulting in the expiration of unused capacity (Continuous) or the calculation of a balance or true-up (Discontinuous).

> Contract Commitment Fulfillment Interval has a series of possible values that represent a length of time, typically recurring over the [contract commitment duration](#datasets.contractcommitment.contractcommitmentduration).  Continuous models are typically Hourly, whereas Discontinuous models are typically Daily or greater.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Contract Commitment Fulfillment Interval has a series of possible values that represent a length of time, typically recurring over the [contract commitment duration type](#datasets.contractcommitment.contractcommitmentdurationtype).  Continuous models are typically Hourly, whereas Discontinuous models are typically Daily or greater.
```

Stale reference. The column was renamed from ContractCommitmentDuration to ContractCommitmentDurationType.

* ContractCommitmentInterval MUST be of type String.
* ContractCommitmentInterval MUST NOT be null.
* ContractCommitmentInterval MUST be one of the allowed values.

## Column ID

ContractCommitmentInterval

## Display Name

Contract Commitment Interval

## Description

Represents the specific [*period*](#glossary:period) used to measure and reset the fulfillment of a [*contract commitment*](#glossary:contract-commitment).

## Content Constraints

| Constraint      | Value          |
| :-------------- | :------------- |
| Column type     | Dimension      |
| Feature level   | Mandatory      |
| Allows nulls    | False          |
| Data type       | String         |
| Value format    | Allowed values |

Allowed values:

| Value         | Sort Order | Description                                                                            | Typical Use Case                                                           |
| ------------- | ---------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | Hourly        | 10         | Resets every 60 minutes; unused commitment is lost immediately.                        | Continuous Model: Cloud-native RIs and Savings Plans.                      |

Reviewer 2: "unused commitment is lost immediately" is based on the Commitment Model? Suggest deleting this part of the description

Author: Good point.  This description presumed that Hourly is always Continuous.  Which, it _typically_ is.  But not always.  Incorporating your suggestion.

```suggestion
| Hourly        | 10         | Resets every 60 minutes.                        | Continuous Model: Cloud-native RIs and Savings Plans.                      |
```

> | Value         | Sort Order | Description                                                                            | Typical Use Case                                                           |
> | ------------- | ---------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
> | Hourly        | 10         | Resets every 60 minutes.                        | Continuous Model: Cloud-native RIs and Savings Plans.                      |
> | Daily         | 20         | Resets at the end of each calendar day.                                                | Daily active user (DAU) caps or daily license minimums.                    |
> | Weekly        | 30         | Measured over a rolling or fixed 7-day period.                                         | Burstable bandwidth or weekly sprint-based SaaS usage.                     |
> | Monthly       | 40         | Resets at the end of the calendar month.                                               | Discontinuous Model: SaaS MRR minimums or tiered discounts.                |
> | Quarterly     | 50         | Measured over a 3-month fiscal period.                                                 | Enterprise true-ups or volume-based rebate targets.                        |
> | Semi-Annual   | 60         | Resets every 6 months.                                                                 | Mid-year budget alignments or review cycles.                               |
> | Annual        | 70         | Measured over a 12-month period.                                                       | Discontinuous Model: Cloud EAs (Enterprise Agreements).                    |

Reviewer 3: The allowed values for `ContractCommitmentFulfillmentInterval` currently use two different description patterns:

* **"Resets":** Hourly, Daily, Monthly, Semi-Annual
* **"Measured over":** Weekly, Quarterly, Annual

I suggest aligning all applicable allowed values to the "Measured over" pattern for consistency:

* "Resets every 60 minutes" -> "Measured over a 60-minute period"
* "Resets at the end of each calendar day" -> "Measured over a calendar day"
* "Resets at the end of the calendar month" -> "Measured over a calendar month"
* "Resets every 6 months" -> "Measured over a 6-month period"

**Out of scope of this PR:**

I assume in the future we plan to introduce additional dedicated columns to explicitly define what happens at the end of the interval, i.e., what is being reset, if carry-over is allowed between fulfillment intervals, etc. Some of these distinctions are currently only addressed through `ContractCommitmentModel` (`Continuous` = no carry-over).

```suggestion
| Value         | Sort Order | Description                                                                            | Typical Use Case                                                           |
| ------------- | ---------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Hourly        | 10         | Measured over a 60-minute period.                        | Continuous Model: Cloud-native RIs and Savings Plans.                      |
| Daily         | 20         | Measured over a calendar day.                                                | Daily active user (DAU) caps or daily license minimums.                    |
| Weekly        | 30         | Measured over a rolling or fixed 7-day period.                                         | Burstable bandwidth or weekly sprint-based SaaS usage.                     |
| Monthly       | 40         | Measured over a calendar month.                                               | Discontinuous Model: SaaS MRR minimums or tiered discounts.                |
| Quarterly     | 50         | Measured over a 3-month fiscal period.                                                 | Enterprise true-ups or volume-based rebate targets.                        |
| Semi-Annual   | 60         | Measured over a 6-month period.                                                                 | Mid-year budget alignments or review cycles.                               |
| Annual        | 70         | Measured over a 12-month period.                                                       | Discontinuous Model: Cloud EAs (Enterprise Agreements).                    |
```
